README.md, before:

# aurora4spark

- For the plug-in development: [SBT.md](SBT.md).
- For the JavaCPP layer around AVEO, see: [aurora4spark-parent/aveo4j/README.md](aurora4spark-parent/aveo4j/README.md).

## Usage of the plugin

### on Aurora 5 or Aurora 6

```

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name PairwiseAddExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-add-pairwise.py

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name AveragingExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-avg.py

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name SumExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-sum.py

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name SumMultipleColumnsExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-sum-multiple.py


$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name AveragingMultipleColumns5Example \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-avg-multiple.py

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name MultipleOperationsExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-multiple-operations.py

```

## NCC arguments

A good set of NCC defaults is set up, however if further overriding is needed, it can be done with the following Spark config:

```
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.debug=true
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.o=3
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.openmp=false
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.extra-argument.0=-X
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.extra-argument.1=-Y
```

For safety, if an argument key is not recognized, it will fail to launch.

To use the native CSV parser (default is 'off'):
```
--conf spark.com.nec.native-csv=x86
--conf spark.com.nec.native-csv=VE
```

## Clustering / resource support

A variety of options are available - not tested with YARN yet.

```
# for Driver, a VE is not needed (at least not yet)
# this is definitely needed
--conf spark.executor.resource.ve.amount=1

# not clear if this is needed
--conf spark.task.resource.ve.amount=1

## This seems to be necessary for cluster-local mode
--conf spark.worker.resource.ve.amount=1

# detecting resources automatically
--conf spark.resources.discoveryPlugin=com.nec.ve.DiscoverVectorEnginesPlugin

# specifying resources via file
--conf spark.executor.resource.ve.discoveryScript=/opt/spark/getVEsResources.sh
```

Commit message:

Use ByteArray instead of String when reading CSV (#136)
* Skip Stringification step as it's redundant.

* Skip Stringification step as it's redundant.
Put behind a configuration flag.

* Fix Wrapper

* Skip by default!

README.md, after:

# aurora4spark

- For the plug-in development: [SBT.md](SBT.md).
- For the JavaCPP layer around AVEO, see: [aurora4spark-parent/aveo4j/README.md](aurora4spark-parent/aveo4j/README.md).

## Usage of the plugin

### on Aurora 5 or Aurora 6

```

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name PairwiseAddExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-add-pairwise.py

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name AveragingExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-avg.py

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name SumExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-sum.py

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name SumMultipleColumnsExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-sum-multiple.py


$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name AveragingMultipleColumns5Example \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-avg-multiple.py

$ /opt/spark/bin/spark-submit \
    --name MultipleOperationsExample \
    --master yarn \
    --deploy-mode cluster \
    --conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.path=/opt/nec/ve/bin/ncc \
    --jars /opt/aurora4spark/aurora4spark-sql-plugin.jar \
    /opt/aurora4spark/examples/example-multiple-operations.py

```

## NCC arguments

A good set of NCC defaults is set up, however if further overriding is needed, it can be done with the following Spark config:

```
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.debug=true
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.o=3
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.openmp=false
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.extra-argument.0=-X
--conf spark.com.nec.spark.ncc.extra-argument.1=-Y
```

For safety, if an argument key is not recognized, it will fail to launch.

To use the native CSV parser (default is 'off'):

```
--conf spark.com.nec.native-csv=x86
--conf spark.com.nec.native-csv=VE
```

To use String allocation as opposed to ByteArray optimization in `NativeCsvExec`, use: 

```
--conf spark.com.nec.native-csv-skip-strings=false
```

## Clustering / resource support

A variety of options are available - not tested with YARN yet.

```
# for Driver, a VE is not needed (at least not yet)
# this is definitely needed
--conf spark.executor.resource.ve.amount=1

# not clear if this is needed
--conf spark.task.resource.ve.amount=1

## This seems to be necessary for cluster-local mode
--conf spark.worker.resource.ve.amount=1

# detecting resources automatically
--conf spark.resources.discoveryPlugin=com.nec.ve.DiscoverVectorEnginesPlugin

# specifying resources via file
--conf spark.executor.resource.ve.discoveryScript=/opt/spark/getVEsResources.sh
```
